1

1 Tables organize valuable content in a concise and com- pact representation. This content is extremely valuable for 3 systems such as search engines, Knowledge Graph's, etc, 2 since they enhance their predictive capabilities. Unfortu- nately, tables come in a large variety of shapes and sizes. Furthermore, they can have complex column/row-header configurations, multiline rows, different variety of separa- b. Red-annotation of bounding boxes, Blue-predictions by TableFormer tion lines, missing entries, etc. As such, the correct iden- tification of the table-structure from an image is a non- 2 0 1 1 trivial task. In this paper, we present a new table-structure 3 5 7 6 4 3 identification model. The latter improves the latest end-to- end deep learning model (i.e. encoder-dual-decoder from 9 11 10 12 2 PubTabNet) in two significant ways. First, we introduce a 14 16 8 13 15 new object detection decoder for table-cells. In this way, 20 19 18 17 we can obtain the content of the table-cells from program- c. Structure predicted by TableFormer: matic PDF's directly from the PDF source and avoid the training of the custom OCR decoders. This architectural 0 1 2 1 change leads to more accurate table-content extraction and 3 4 5 6 7 3 allows us to tackle non-english tables. Second, we replace 9 10 11 12 the LSTM decoders with transformer based decoders. This 8 13 14 15 16 2 upgrade improves significantly the previous state-of-the-art 17 18 19 20 tree-editing-distance-score (TEDS) from 91% to 98.5% on simple tables and from 88.7% to 95% on complex tables. Figure 1: Picture of a table with subtle, complex features such as (1) multi-column headers, (2) cell with multi-row text and (3) cells with no content. Image from PubTabNet 1. Introduction evaluation set, filename: 'PMC2944238 004 02'.

## arXiv:2203.01017v2 [cs.CV] 11 Mar 2022

The occurrence of tables in documents is ubiquitous. They often summarise quantitative or factual data, which is Recently, significant progress has been made with vi- cumbersome to describe in verbose text but nevertheless ex- sion based approaches to extract tables in documents. For tremely valuable. Unfortunately, this compact representa- the sake of completeness, the issue of table extraction from tion is often not easy to parse by machines. There are many documents is typically decomposed into two separate chal- implicit conventions used to obtain a compact table repre- lenges, i.e. (1) finding the location of the table(s) on a sentation. For example, tables often have complex column- document-page and (2) finding the structure of a given table and row-headers in order to reduce duplicated cell content. Lines of different shapes and sizes are leveraged to separatein the document. content or indicate a tree structure. Additionally, tables can The first problem is called table-location and has been also have empty/missing table-entries or multi-row textual previously addressed [ 30, 38 , 19 , 21 , 23 , 26 , 8 ] with state- table-entries. Fig. 1 shows a table which presents all these of-the-art object-detection networks (e.g. YOLO and later issues. on Mask-RCNN [ 9]). For all practical purposes, it can be

a. Picture of a table:

### Abstract

#### Ahmed Nassar, Nikolaos Livathinos, Maksym Lysak, Peter Staar IBM Research { ahn,nli,mly,taa} @zurich.ibm.com

### TableFormer: Table Structure Understanding with Transformers.

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

2

considered as a solved problem, given enough ground-truth its results & performance in Sec. 5. As a conclusion, we de- data to train on. scribe how this new model-architecture can be re-purposed for other tasks in the computer-vision community. The second problem is called table-structure decompo- sition. The latter is a long standing problem in the com- 2. Previous work and State of the Art munity of document understanding [ 6, 4 , 14 ]. Contrary to the table-location problem, there are no commonly used ap- Identifying the structure of a table has been an outstand- proaches that can easily be re-purposed to solve this prob- ing problem in the document-parsing community, that mo- lem. Lately, a set of new model-architectures has been pro- tivates many organised public challenges [ 6, 4 , 14 ]. The posed by the community to address table-structure decom- difficulty of the problem can be attributed to a number of position [37, 36, 18, 20]. All these models have some weak- factors. First, there is a large variety in the shapes and sizes nesses (see Sec. 2 ). The common denominator here is the of tables. Such large variety requires a flexible method. reliance on textual features and/or the inability to provide This is especially true for complex column- and row head- the bounding box of each table-cell in the original image. ers, which can be extremely intricate and demanding. A In this paper, we want to address these weaknesses and second factor of complexity is the lack of data with regard present a robust table-structure decomposition algorithm. to table-structure. Until the publication of PubTabNet [ 37], The design criteria for our model are the following. First, there were no large datasets (i.e. > 100 K tables) that pro- we want our algorithm to be language agnostic. In this way, vided structure information. This happens primarily due to we can obtain the structure of any table, irregardless of the the fact that tables are notoriously time-consuming to an- language. Second, we want our algorithm to leverage as notate by hand. However, this has definitely changed in re- much data as possible from the original PDF document. For cent years with the deliverance of PubTabNet [ 37], FinTab- programmatic PDF documents, the text-cells can often be Net [ 36], TableBank [ 17] etc. extracted much faster and with higher accuracy compared Before the rising popularity of deep neural networks, to OCR methods. Last but not least, we want to have a di- the community relied heavily on heuristic and/or statistical rect link between the table-cell and its bounding box in the methods to do table structure identification [ 3, 7 , 11 , 5 , 13 , image. 28]. Although such methods work well on constrained ta- To meet the design criteria listed above, we developed a bles [ 12], a more data-driven approach can be applied due new model called TableFormer and a synthetically gener- to the advent of convolutional neural networks (CNNs) and

1

ated table structure dataset called SynthTabNet . In partic- the availability of large datasets. To the best-of-our knowl- ular, our contributions in this work can be summarised as edge, there are currently two different types of network ar- follows: chitecture that are being pursued for state-of-the-art table- structure identification. • We propose TableFormer, a transformer based model Image-to-Text networks: In this type of network, one that predicts tables structure and bounding boxes for predicts a sequence of tokens starting from an encoded the table content simultaneously in an end-to-end ap- image. Such sequences of tokens can be HTML table proach. tags [ 37, 17 ] or LaTeX symbols[ 10]. The choice of sym- bols is ultimately not very important, since one can be trans- • Across all benchmark datasets TableFormer signif- formed into the other. There are however subtle variations icantly outperforms existing state-of-the-art metrics, in the Image-to-Text networks. The easiest network archi- while being much more efficient in training and infer- tectures are "image-encoder → text-decoder" (IETD), sim- ence to existing works. ilar to network architectures that try to provide captions to • We present SynthTabNet a synthetically generated images [32]. In these IETD networks, one expects as output dataset, with various appearance styles and complex- the LaTeX/HTML string of the entire table, i.e. the sym- ity. bols necessary for creating the table with the content of the table. Another approach is the "image-encoder → dual de- • An augmented dataset based on PubTabNet [ 37], coder" (IEDD) networks. In these type of networks, one has FinTabNet [ 36], and TableBank [ 17] with generated two consecutive decoders with different purposes. The first ground-truth for reproducibility. decoder is the tag-decoder, i.e. it only produces the HTM- L/LaTeX tags which construct an empty table. The second The paper is structured as follows. In Sec. 2 , we give content-decoder uses the encoding of the image in combi- a brief overview of the current state-of-the-art. In Sec. 3 , nation with the output encoding of each cell-tag (from the we describe the datasets on which we train. In Sec. 4 , we tag-decoder) to generate the textual content of each table introduce the TableFormer model-architecture and describe cell. The network architecture of IEDD is certainly more

1

elaborate, but it has the advantage that one can pre-train the https://github.com/IBM/SynthTabNet

3

tag-decoder which is constrained to the table-tags. PubTabNet + FinTabNet In practice, both network architectures (IETD and

90

#### IEDD) require an implicit, custom trained object-character-

## 80 10K

recognition (OCR) to obtain the content of the table-cells.

70

In the case of IETD, this OCR engine is implicit in the de- 8K 60

coder similar to [ 24]. For the IEDD, the OCR is solely em- bedded in the content-decoder. This reliance on a custom,

## 50 6K

implicit OCR decoder is of course problematic. OCR is a

40

well known and extremely tough problem, that often needs 4K 30

custom training for each individual language. However, the limited availability for non-english content in the current

## 20 2K

#### datasets, makes it impractical to apply the IETD and IEDD

10

methods on tables with other languages. Additionally, OCR 0 0

#### can be completely omitted if the tables originate from pro-

## 0 10 20 30 40 50

Rows / Columns grammatic PDF documents with known positions of each cell. The latter was the inspiration for the work of this pa- per. Figure 2: Distribution of the tables across different table Graph Neural networks: Graph Neural networks dimensions in PubTabNet + FinTabNet datasets (GNN's) take a radically different approach to table- structure extraction. Note that one table cell can consti- tute out of multiple text-cells. To obtain the table-structure, balance in the previous datasets. one creates an initial graph, where each of the text-cells The PubTabNet dataset contains 509k tables delivered as becomes a node in the graph similar to [ 33, 34 , 2 ]. Each annotated PNG images. The annotations consist of the table node is then associated with en embedding vector coming structure represented in HTML format, the tokenized text from the encoded image, its coordinates and the encoded and its bounding boxes per table cell. Fig. 1 shows the ap- text. Furthermore, nodes that represent adjacent text-cells pearance style of PubTabNet. Depending on its complexity, are linked. Graph Convolutional Networks (GCN's) based a table is characterized as "simple" when it does not contain methods take the image as an input, but also the position of row spans or column spans, otherwise it is "complex". The the text-cells and their content [ 18]. The purpose of a GCN dataset is divided into Train and Val splits (roughly 98% and is to transform the input graph into a new graph, which re- 2%). The Train split consists of 54% simple and 46% com- places the old links with new ones. The new links then plex tables and the Val split of 51% and 49% respectively. represent the table-structure. With this approach, one can The FinTabNet dataset contains 112k tables delivered as avoid the need to build custom OCR decoders. However, single-page PDF documents with mixed table structures and the quality of the reconstructed structure is not comparable text content. Similarly to the PubTabNet, the annotations to the current state-of-the-art [18]. of FinTabNet include the table structure in HTML, the to- Hybrid Deep Learning-Rule-Based approach : A pop- kenized text and the bounding boxes on a table cell basis. ular current model for table-structure identification is the The dataset is divided into Train, Test and Val splits (81%, use of a hybrid Deep Learning-Rule-Based approach similar 9.5%, 9.5%), and each one is almost equally divided into to [27, 29]. In this approach, one first detects the position of simple and complex tables (Train: 48% simple, 52% com- the table-cells with object detection (e.g. YoloVx or Mask- plex, Test: 48% simple, 52% complex, Test: 53% simple, RCNN), then classifies the table into different types (from 47% complex). Finally the TableBank dataset consists of its images) and finally uses different rule-sets to obtain 145k tables provided as JPEG images. The latter has anno- its table-structure. Currently, this approach achieves state- tations for the table structure, but only few with bounding of-the-art results, but is not an end-to-end deep-learning boxes of the table cells. The entire dataset consists of sim- method. As such, new rules need to be written if different ple tables and it is divided into 90% Train, 3% Test and 7% types of tables are encountered. Val splits. Due to the heterogeneity across the dataset formats, it 3. Datasets was necessary to combine all available data into one homog- We rely on large-scale datasets such as PubTabNet [ 37], enized dataset before we could train our models for practi- cal purposes. Given the size of PubTabNet, we adopted its FinTabNet [ 36], and TableBank [ 17] datasets to train and annotation format and we extracted and converted all tables evaluate our models. These datasets span over various ap- as PNG images with a resolution of 72 dpi. Additionally, pearance styles and content. We also introduce our own we have filtered out tables with extreme sizes due to small synthetically generated SynthTabNet dataset to fix an im-

<!-- image -->

4

Tags Bbox Size Format amount of such tables, and kept only those ones ranging PubTabNet ✓ ✓ 509k PNG between 1*1 and 20*10 (rows/columns). FinTabNet ✓ ✓ 112k PDF The availability of the bounding boxes for all table cells TableBank ✓ ✗ 145k JPEG is essential to train our models. In order to distinguish be- Combined-Tabnet(*) ✓ ✓ 400k PNG tween empty and non-empty bounding boxes, we have in- Combined(**) ✓ ✓ 500k PNG troduced a binary class in the annotation. Unfortunately, the ✓ ✓ 600k PNG SynthTabNet original datasets either omit the bounding boxes for whole tables (e.g. TableBank) or they narrow their scope only to Table 1: Both "Combined-Tabnet" and "Combined- non-empty cells. Therefore, it was imperative to introduce Tabnet" are variations of the following: (*) The Combined- a data pre-processing procedure that generates the missing Tabnet dataset is the processed combination of PubTabNet bounding boxes out of the annotation information. This pro- and Fintabnet. (**) The combined dataset is the processed cedure first parses the provided table structure and calcu- combination of PubTabNet, Fintabnet and TableBank. lates the dimensions of the most fine-grained grid that cov- ers the table structure. Notice that each table cell may oc- cupy multiple grid squares due to row or column spans. In one adopts a colorful appearance with high contrast and the case of PubTabNet we had to compute missing bounding last one contains tables with sparse content. Lastly, we have boxes for 48% of the simple and 69% of the complex ta- combined all synthetic datasets into one big unified syn- bles. Regarding FinTabNet, 68% of the simple and 98% thetic dataset of 600k examples. of the complex tables require the generation of bounding Tab. 1 summarizes the various attributes of the datasets. boxes. As it is illustrated in Fig. 2 , the table distributions from 4. The TableFormer model all datasets are skewed towards simpler structures with fewer number of rows/columns. Additionally, there is very Given the image of a table, TableFormer is able to pre- limited variance in the table styles, which in case of Pub-dict: 1) a sequence of tokens that represent the structure of TabNet and FinTabNet means one styling format for the a table, and 2) a bounding box coupled to a subset of those majority of the tables. Similar limitations appear also in tokens. The conversion of an image into a sequence of to- the type of table content, which in some cases (e.g. FinTab-kens is a well-known task [ 35, 16 ]. While attention is often Net) is restricted to a certain domain. Ultimately, the lack used as an implicit method to associate each token of the of diversity in the training dataset damages the ability of thesequence with a position in the original image, an explicit models to generalize well on unseen data. association between the individual table-cells and the image bounding boxes is also required. Motivated by those observations we aimed at generating a synthetic table dataset named SynthTabNet. This approach 4.1. Model architecture. offers control over: 1) the size of the dataset, 2) the table structure, 3) the table style and 4) the type of content. The We now describe in detail the proposed method, which complexity of the table structure is described by the size of is composed of three main components, see Fig. 4 . Our the table header and the table body, as well as the percentage CNN Backbone Network encodes the input as a feature vec- of the table cells covered by row spans and column spans. tor of predefined length. The input feature vector of the A set of carefully designed styling templates provides the encoded image is passed to the Structure Decoder to pro- basis to build a wide range of table appearances. Lastly, the duce a sequence of HTML tags that represent the structure table content is generated out of a curated collection of text of the table. With each prediction of an HTML standard corpora. By controlling the size and scope of the synthetic data cell (' < td > ') the hidden state of that cell is passed to datasets we are able to train and evaluate our models in a the Cell BBox Decoder. As for spanning cells, such as row variety of different conditions. For example, we can first or column span, the tag is broken down < to ', 'rowspan= ' ' generate a highly diverse dataset to train our models and or 'colspan= ', with the number of spanning cells (attribute), then evaluate their performance on other synthetic datasets and ' > '. The hidden state attached to < ' ' is passed to the which are focused on a specific domain. Cell BBox Decoder. A shared feed forward network (FFN) receives the hidden states from the Structure Decoder, to In this regard, we have prepared four synthetic datasets, provide the final detection predictions of the bounding box each one containing 150k examples. The corpora to gener- ate the table text consists of the most frequent terms appear-coordinates and their classification. CNN Backbone Network. A ResNet-18 CNN is the ing in PubTabNet and FinTabNet together with randomly backbone that receives the table image and encodes it as a generated text. The first two synthetic datasets have been vector of predefined length. The network has been modified fine-tuned to mimic the appearance of the original datasets by removing the linear and pooling layer, as we are not per- but encompass more complicated table structures. The third

Figure 4: Given an input image of a table, Encoder the pro- duces fixed-length features that represent the input The features are then passed to both Structure the Decoder and Cell BBox Decoder. During training, the Structure Decoder receives 'tokenized tags' of the HTML code represent the table structure. Afterwards,

tures that are received by a linear layer, and Cell the BBox Decoder. The linear layer is applied to the

selects features referring to the data cells < td (' > ', ' < ') and passes them through an attention network, an linear layer to predict the bounding boxes.

Predicted Tags

Encoded Output

Feed Forward Network

Add & Normalisation Transformer Encoder Network

Multi-Head Attention x2

Add & Normalisation

CNN BACKBONE ENCODER

Positional Encoding

Linear

Softmax

Multi-Head Attention

Add & Normalisation

Feed Forward Network

Add & Normalisation

Encoding

Masked Multi-Head Attention

Add & Normalisation

Input Image Tokenised Tags

[30, 1, 2, 3, 4, … 3, 4, 5, 8, 31] x4

Positional

_Figure 3: TableFormer takes in an synchronized. The_

Transformer Decoder Network

Bounding Boxes & Classification

Sigmoid

MLP Linear

Linear

Attention Network

Linear

CELL BBOX DECODER Encoded Output

#### image of the PDF

Extracted Table Images

Names Amount 1. Item 1000 unit 2. Item 500 unit 3. Item 3500 unit 4. Item 150 unit

Standardized Images

Encoder

BBox Decoder

Structure Decoder

5

forming classification, and adding an adaptive pooling layer of size 28*28. ResNet by default downsamples the image resolution by 32 and then the encoded image is provided to both the Structure Decoder, and Cell BBox Decoder . Structure Decoder. The transformer architecture of this component is based on the work proposed in [ 31]. After extensive experimentation, the Structure Decoder is mod- eled as a transformer encoder with two encoder layers and a transformer decoder made from a stack of 4 decoder lay- ers that comprise mainly of multi-head attention and feed forward layers. This configuration uses fewer layers and heads in comparison to networks applied to other problems (e.g. "Scene Understanding", "Image Captioning"), some- thing which we relate to the simplicity of table images. The transformer encoder receives an encoded image from the CNN Backbone Network and refines it through a multi-head dot-product attention layer, followed by a Feed Forward Network. During training, the transformer de- coder receives as input the output feature produced by the transformer encoder, and the tokenized input of the HTML ground-truth tags. Using a stack of multi-head attention lay- ers, different aspects of the tag sequence could be inferred. This is achieved by each attention head on a layer operating in a different subspace, and then combining altogether their attention score. image. Cell BBox Decoder. Our architecture allows to simul- taneously predict HTML tags and bounding boxes for each table cell without the need of a separate object detector end that to end. This approach is inspired by DETR [ 1] which em- a transformer en- ploys a Transformer Encoder, and Decoder that looks for coder and decoder architecture is employed to produce fea- a specific number of object queries (potential object detec- tions). As our model utilizes a transformer architecture, the features to hidden state of the < td > ' and ' < ' HTML structure tags be- predict the tags. Simultaneously, the Cell BBox Decoder come the object query. The encoding generated by the CNN Backbone Network MLP, and a along with the features acquired for every data cell from the Transformer Decoder are then passed to the attention net- work. The attention network takes both inputs and learns to provide an attention weighted encoding. This weighted at-

and creates bounding box and HTML structure predictions that are bounding boxes grabs the content from the PDF and inserts it in the structure.

Structure Tags

... BBoxes in sync with tag sequence

<TR> <TD>1 </TD><TD </TR><TR> <TD> </TD><TD>... 3 ...

colspan="2"> </TD> 2 Structure Tags sequence provide full description of the table structure

extract content

BBoxes [x1, y2, x2, y2] 1 [x1', y2', x2', y2'] 2 [x1'', y2'', x2'', y2''] 3

BBoxes can be traced back to the original image to

1

3

2

<!-- image -->

6

5. Experimental Results 5.1. Implementation Details 5.2. Generalization TableFormer uses ResNet-18 as the CNN Backbone Net- TableFormer is evaluated on three major publicly avail- work. The input images are resized to 448*448 pixels and able datasets of different nature to prove the generalization the feature map has a dimension of 28*28. Additionally, we and effectiveness of our model. The datasets used for eval- enforce the following input constraints: uation are the PubTabNet, FinTabNet and TableBank which stem from the scientific, financial and general domains re- Image width and height ≤ 1024 pixels (2) spectively. Structural tags length ≤ 512 tokens. We also share our baseline results on the challenging Although input constraints are used also by other methods, SynthTabNet dataset. Throughout our experiments, the such as EDD, ours are less restrictive due to the improvedsame parameters stated in Sec. 5.1 are utilized.

tention encoding is then multiplied to the encoded image to runtime performance and lower memory footprint of Table- Former. This allows to utilize input samples with longer produce a feature for each table cell. Notice that this is dif- sequences and images with larger dimensions. ferent than the typical object detection problem where im- balances between the number of detections and the amount The Transformer Encoder consists of two "Transformer of objects may exist. In our case, we know up front that Encoder Layers", with an input feature size of 512, feed the produced detections always match with the table cells forward network of 1024, and 4 attention heads. As for the in number and correspondence. Transformer Decoder it is composed of four "Transformer The output features for each table cell are then fed Decoder Layers" with similar input and output dimensions into the feed-forward network (FFN). The FFN consists as the "Transformer Encoder Layers". Even though our of a Multi-Layer Perceptron (3 layers with ReLU activa- model uses fewer layers and heads than the default imple- tion function) that predicts the normalized coordinates for mentation parameters, our extensive experimentation has the bounding box of each table cell. Finally, the predicted proved this setup to be more suitable for table images. We bounding boxes are classified based on whether they are attribute this finding to the inherent design of table im- empty or not using a linear layer. ages, which contain mostly lines and text, unlike the more Loss Functions. We formulate a multi-task loss Eq. 2 elaborate content present in other scopes (e.g. the COCO to train our network. The Cross-Entropy loss (denoted as dataset). Moreover, we have added ResNet blocks to the l ) is used to train the Structure Decoder which predicts the

s

inputs of the Structure Decoder and Cell BBox Decoder. structure tokens. As for the Cell BBox Decoder it is trained This prevents a decoder having a stronger influence over the with a combination of losses denoted l as . l consists

box box

learned weights which would damage the other prediction of the generally used l loss for object detection and the

1

task (structure vs bounding boxes), but learn task specific IoU loss ( l ) to be scale invariant as explained in [ 25]. In

iou

weights instead. Lastly our dropout layers are set to 0.5. comparison to DETR, we do not use the Hungarian algo- For training, TableFormer is trained with 3 Adam opti- rithm [ 15] to match the predicted bounding boxes with the mizers, each one for the CNN Backbone Network , Structure ground-truth boxes, as we have already achieved a one-to- Decoder, and Cell BBox Decoder . Taking the PubTabNet as one match through two steps: 1) Our token input sequence an example for our parameter set up, the initializing learn- is naturally ordered, therefore the hidden states of the table ing rate is 0.001 for 12 epochs with a batch size of 24, and data cells are also in order when they are provided as in- λ set to 0.5. Afterwards, we reduce the learning rate to put to the Cell BBox Decoder , and 2) Our bounding boxes 0.0001, the batch size to 18 and train for 12 more epochs or generation mechanism (see Sec. 3 ) ensures a one-to-one convergence. mapping between the cell content and its bounding box for all post-processed datasets. TableFormer is implemented with PyTorch and Torchvi- The loss used to train the TableFormer can be defined as sion libraries [ 22]. To speed up the inference, the image following: undergoes a single forward pass through the CNN Back- bone Network and transformer encoder. This eliminates the overhead of generating the same features for each decoding l = λ l + λ

box iou iou l 1

step. Similarly, we employ a 'caching' technique to preform (1) l = λl + (1 − λ) l faster autoregressive decoding. This is achieved by storing

s box

the features of decoded tokens so we can reuse them for where λ ∈ [0, 1], and λ , λ ∈ R are hyper-parameters.

iou l 1

each time step. Therefore, we only compute the attention for each new tag.

7

Cell Detection. Like any object detector, our Cell BBox Detector provides bounding boxes that can be improved with post-processing during inference. We make use of the grid-like structure of tables to refine the predictions. A tailed explanation on the post-processing is available in the supplementary material. As shown in Tab. 3 , we evaluate

_Table 2: Structure_

#### EDD TB TableFormer TB TableFormer STN

### 86.0 89.6 96.9 95.7 96.7

(FTN), TableBank (TB) and SynthTabNet (STN). FT: Model was trained on PubTabNet then finetuned.

- 86.0 - 89.6

#### results on PubTabNet (PTN), FinTabNet

TEDS Model Simple Complex All Tabula 78.0 57.8 67.9 Traprange 60.8 49.9 55.4 Camelot 80.0 66.0 73.0 Acrobat Pro 68.9 61.8 65.3 EDD 91.2 85.4 88.3 TableFormer 95.4 90.1 93.6

_Table 4: Results of structure with content cell detection on PubTabNet. In de- documents with cropped tables._

#### retrieved using all cases the input is PDF

Structure. As shown in Tab. 2 , TableFormer outper- Model Dataset mAP mAP (PP) forms all SOTA methods across different datasets by a large margin for predicting the table structure from an image. EDD+BBox PubTabNet 79.2 82.7 All the more, our model outperforms pre-trained methods. TableFormer PubTabNet 82.1 86.8 During the evaluation we do not apply any table filtering. TableFormer SynthTabNet 87.7 - We also provide our baseline results on the SynthTabNet dataset. It has been observed that large tables (e.g. tables Table 3: Cell Bounding Box detection results on PubTab- that occupy half of the page or more) yield poor predictions.Net, and FinTabNet. PP: Post-processing. We attribute this issue to the image resizing during the pre- processing step, that produces downsampled images with indistinguishable features. This problem can be addressed Cell Content. In this section, we evaluate the entire by treating such big tables with a separate model which ac- pipeline of recovering a table with content. Here we put cepts a large input image size. our approach to test by capitalizing on extracting content from the PDF cells rather than decoding from images. Tab. TEDS 4 shows the TEDs score of HTML code representing the Model Dataset Simple Complex All structure of the table along with the content inserted in the data cell and compared with the ground-truth. Our method EDD PTN 91.1 88.7 89.9 achieved a 5.3% increase over the state-of-the-art, and com- GTE PTN - - 93.01 mercial solutions. We believe our scores would be higher TableFormer PTN 98.5 95.0 96.75 if the HTML ground-truth matched the extracted PDF cell EDD FTN 88.4 92.08 90.6 content. Unfortunately, there are small discrepancies such GTE FTN - - 87.14 as spacings around words or special characters with various GTE (FT) FTN - - 91.02 unicode representations. TableFormer FTN 97.5 96.0 96.8

#### EditDist ( T , T )

a b

#### TEDS ( T , T ) = 1 − (3)

a b

#### max ( | T |, | T |)

a b

#### where T and T represent tables in tree structure HTML

a b

format. EditDist denotes the tree-edit distance, and | T | rep- resents the number of nodes in T. 5.4. Quantitative Analysis

5.3. Datasets and Metrics The Tree-Edit-Distance-Based Similarity (TEDS) ric was introduced in [ 37]. It ground-truth as a tree structure of HTML tags. This larity is calculated as:

#### met-

our Cell BBox Decoder accuracy for cells with a class la- bel of 'content' only using the PASCAL VOC mAP metric for pre-processing and post-processing. Note that we do represents the prediction, and not have post-processing results for SynthTabNet as images simi- are only provided. To compare the performance of our pro- posed approach, we've integrated TableFormer's Cell BBox Decoder into EDD architecture. As mentioned previously, the Structure Decoder provides the Cell BBox Decoder with the features needed to predict the bounding box predictions. Therefore, the accuracy of the Structure Decoder directly influences the accuracy of the Cell BBox Decoder. If the Structure Decoder predicts an extra column, this will result in an extra column of predicted bounding boxes.

8

5.5. Qualitative Analysis 6. Future Work & Conclusion In this paper, we presented TableFormer an end-to-end transformer based approach to predict table structures and bounding boxes of cells from an image. This approach en- We showcase several visualizations for the different ables us to recreate the table structure, and extract the cell components of our network on various "complex" tables content from PDF or OCR by using bounding boxes. Ad- within datasets presented in this work in Fig. 5 and Fig. 6 ditionally, it provides the versatility required in real-world As it is shown, our model is able to predict bounding boxes scenarios when dealing with various types of PDF docu- for all table cells, even for the empty ones. Additionally, ments, and languages. Furthermore, our method outper- our post-processing techniques can extract the cell content state-of-the-arts with a wide margin. Finally, we by matching the predicted bounding boxes to the PDF cells forms all introduce "SynthTabNet" a challenging synthetically gen- based on their overlap and spatial proximity. The left part erated dataset that reinforces missing characteristics from of Fig. 5 demonstrates also the adaptability of our method other datasets. to any language, as it can successfully extract Japanese text, although the training set contains only English content. We provide more visualizations including the intermediate References steps in the supplementary material. Overall these illustra- tions justify the versatility of our method across a diverse [1] Nicolas Carion, Francisco Massa, Gabriel Synnaeve, Nicolas Usunier, Alexander Kirillov, and Sergey Zagoruyko. End-to- range of table appearances and content type.

_Figure 6: An example of TableFormer predictions (bounding boxes and structure) from generated SynthTabNet table._

aN aA at aa ae as am ao au an eN eA et ea ee es em eo eu en sN sA st sa

the FinTabNet dataset.

i2cd4I l2drg 1.I t em0 5.33un i2..4 t E2.Ix5r.I acd4Ix4T acb.u e2.Ix5r.I sr2d5rd2.

## N A t a e s m o u n AN AA At Aa Ae Am Ao Au An tN tA tt As tn ta te ts tm to tu

_Figure 5: One of the benefits of TableFormer is that it is language agnostic, as an example, the demonstrates TableFormer predictions on previously unseen language (Japanese). Additionally,_

出典 Association for Computational Computational 電気情報通信学会 2003 年総合大会 情報処理学会第 65 回全国大会 (2003) 第 17 回人工知能学会全国大会 (2003) 自然言語処理研究会第 146 〜 155 回 WWW から収集した論文

b. Structure

Linguistics(COLING2002)

ファイル数 英語 日本語 英語 日本語 Linguistics(ACL2003) 65 65 0 150 0 RSUs PSUs 140 140 0 150 0 Nonvested on January 1 1.1 0.3 150 8 142 223 147 Granted 0.5 0.1 177 1 176 150 236 Vested (0.5) (0.1) 208 5 203 152 244 Canceled or forfeited 98 2 96 150 232 (0.1) — 107 73 34 147 96 Nonvested on December 31 1.0 0.3 945 294 651 1122 955 計

Text is aligned to

predicted by TableFormer, with superimposed matched PDF cell text:

論文ファイル 参考文献 Shares (in millions)

### 102.01 92.18 104.85 $ $ 104.51

match original for ease of

### 87.08 81.14

RSUs 90.10 $ 117.44

PSUs $ 91.19 122.41

WeightedAverage Grant Date Fair Value

viewing

a. Red- PDF cells,Green - predicted bounding boxes, Blue - post-processed predictions Japanese language (previously unseen by TableFormer): Example table from FinTabNet:

matched to PDF cells

#### we see that TableFormer is

#### left part of the illustration

robust to variability in style and content, right side of the illustration shows the example of the TableFormer prediction from

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

9

end object detection with transformers. In Andrea Vedaldi, Horst Bischof, Thomas Brox, and Jan-Michael Frahm, edi- tors, Computer Vision – ECCV 2020 , pages 213–229, Cham, 2020. Springer International Publishing. 5 [2] Zewen Chi, Heyan Huang, Heng-Da Xu, Houjin Yu, Wanx- uan Yin, and Xian-Ling Mao. Complicated table structure recognition. arXiv preprint arXiv:1908.04729 , 2019. 3 [3] Bertrand Couasnon and Aurelie Lemaitre. Recognition of Ta- bles and Forms , pages 647–677. Springer London, London, 2014. 2 ´ D ejean, ´ [4] Herv e Jean-Luc Meunier, Liangcai Gao, Yilun Huang, Yu Fang, Florian Kleber, and Eva-Maria Lang. IC- DAR 2019 Competition on Table Detection and Recognition (cTDaR), Apr. 2019. http://sac.founderit.com/. 2 [5] Basilios Gatos, Dimitrios Danatsas, Ioannis Pratikakis, and Stavros J Perantonis. Automatic table detection in document images. In International Conference on Pattern Recognition and Image Analysis , pages 609–618. Springer, 2005. 2 ¨ [6] Max G obel, Tamir Hassan, Ermelinda Oro, and Giorgio Orsi. Icdar 2013 table competition. In 2013 12th International Conference on Document Analysis and Recognition , pages 1449–1453, 2013. 2 [7] EA Green and M Krishnamoorthy. Recognition of tables using table grammars. procs. In Symposium on Document Analysis and Recognition (SDAIR'95) , pages 261–277. 2 [8] Khurram Azeem Hashmi, Alain Pagani, Marcus Liwicki, Di- dier Stricker, and Muhammad Zeshan Afzal. Castabdetec- tors: Cascade network for table detection in document im- ages with recursive feature pyramid and switchable atrous convolution. Journal of Imaging , 7(10), 2021. 1 [9] Kaiming He, Georgia Gkioxari, Piotr Dollar, and Ross Gir- shick. Mask r-cnn. In Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV) , Oct 2017. 1 [10] Yelin He, X. Qi, Jiaquan Ye, Peng Gao, Yihao Chen, Bing- cong Li, Xin Tang, and Rong Xiao. Pingan-vcgroup's so- lution for icdar 2021 competition on scientific table image recognition to latex. ArXiv, abs/2105.01846, 2021. 2 [11] Jianying Hu, Ramanujan S Kashi, Daniel P Lopresti, and Gordon Wilfong. Medium-independent table detection. In Document Recognition and Retrieval VII , volume 3967, pages 291–302. International Society for Optics and Photon- ics, 1999. 2 [12] Matthew Hurst. A constraint-based approach to table struc- ture derivation. In Proceedings of the Seventh International Conference on Document Analysis and Recognition - Volume 2, ICDAR '03, page 911, USA, 2003. IEEE Computer Soci- ety. 2 [13] Thotreingam Kasar, Philippine Barlas, Sebastien Adam, ´ Clement Chatelain, and Thierry Paquet. Learning to detect tables in scanned document images using line information. In 2013 12th International Conference on Document Analy- sis and Recognition , pages 1185–1189. IEEE, 2013. 2 [14] Pratik Kayal, Mrinal Anand, Harsh Desai, and Mayank Singh. Icdar 2021 competition on scientific table image recognition to latex, 2021. 2 [15] Harold W Kuhn. The hungarian method for the assignment problem. Naval research logistics quarterly , 2(1-2):83–97, 1955. 6

[16] Girish Kulkarni, Visruth Premraj, Vicente Ordonez, Sag- nik Dhar, Siming Li, Yejin Choi, Alexander C. Berg, and Tamara L. Berg. Babytalk: Understanding and generat- ing simple image descriptions. IEEE Transactions on Pat- tern Analysis and Machine Intelligence , 35(12):2891–2903, 2013. 4 [17] Minghao Li, Lei Cui, Shaohan Huang, Furu Wei, Ming Zhou, and Zhoujun Li. Tablebank: A benchmark dataset for table detection and recognition, 2019. 2 , 3 [18] Yiren Li, Zheng Huang, Junchi Yan, Yi Zhou, Fan Ye, and Xianhui Liu. Gfte: Graph-based financial table extraction. In Alberto Del Bimbo, Rita Cucchiara, Stan Sclaroff, Gio- vanni Maria Farinella, Tao Mei, Marco Bertini, Hugo Jair Escalante, and Roberto Vezzani, editors, Pattern Recogni- tion. ICPR International Workshops and Challenges , pages 644–658, Cham, 2021. Springer International Publishing. 2 , 3 [19] Nikolaos Livathinos, Cesar Berrospi, Maksym Lysak, Vik- tor Kuropiatnyk, Ahmed Nassar, Andre Carvalho, Michele Dolfi, Christoph Auer, Kasper Dinkla, and Peter Staar. Ro- bust pdf document conversion using recurrent neural net- works. Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, 35(17):15137–15145, May 2021. 1 [20] Rujiao Long, Wen Wang, Nan Xue, Feiyu Gao, Zhibo Yang, Yongpan Wang, and Gui-Song Xia. Parsing table structures in the wild. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vision , pages 944–952, 2021. 2 [21] Shubham Singh Paliwal, D Vishwanath, Rohit Rahul, Monika Sharma, and Lovekesh Vig. Tablenet: Deep learn- ing model for end-to-end table detection and tabular data ex- traction from scanned document images. In 2019 Interna- tional Conference on Document Analysis and Recognition (ICDAR), pages 128–133. IEEE, 2019. 1 [22] Adam Paszke, Sam Gross, Francisco Massa, Adam Lerer, James Bradbury, Gregory Chanan, Trevor Killeen, Zeming Lin, Natalia Gimelshein, Luca Antiga, Alban Desmaison, Andreas Kopf, Edward Yang, Zachary DeVito, Martin Rai- son, Alykhan Tejani, Sasank Chilamkurthy, Benoit Steiner, Lu Fang, Junjie Bai, and Soumith Chintala. Pytorch: An im- perative style, high-performance deep learning library. In H. ´ Wallach, H. Larochelle, A. Beygelzimer, F. d'Alch e-Buc, E. Fox, and R. Garnett, editors, Advances in Neural Informa- tion Processing Systems 32 , pages 8024–8035. Curran Asso- ciates, Inc., 2019. 6 [23] Devashish Prasad, Ayan Gadpal, Kshitij Kapadni, Manish Visave, and Kavita Sultanpure. Cascadetabnet: An approach for end to end table detection and structure recognition from image-based documents. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition Workshops, pages 572–573, 2020. 1 [24] Shah Rukh Qasim, Hassan Mahmood, and Faisal Shafait. Rethinking table recognition using graph neural networks. In 2019 International Conference on Document Analysis and Recognition (ICDAR), pages 142–147. IEEE, 2019. 3 [25] Hamid Rezatofighi, Nathan Tsoi, JunYoung Gwak, Amir Sadeghian, Ian Reid, and Silvio Savarese. Generalized in- tersection over union: A metric and a loss for bounding box regression. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on

## 10

Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition , pages 658–666, 2019. 6 [26] Sebastian Schreiber, Stefan Agne, Ivo Wolf, Andreas Den- gel, and Sheraz Ahmed. Deepdesrt: Deep learning for detec- tion and structure recognition of tables in document images. In 2017 14th IAPR International Conference on Document Analysis and Recognition (ICDAR) , volume 01, pages 1162– 1167, 2017. 1 [27] Sebastian Schreiber, Stefan Agne, Ivo Wolf, Andreas Den- gel, and Sheraz Ahmed. Deepdesrt: Deep learning for de- tection and structure recognition of tables in document im- ages. In 2017 14th IAPR international conference on doc- ument analysis and recognition (ICDAR) , volume 1, pages 1162–1167. IEEE, 2017. 3 [28] Faisal Shafait and Ray Smith. Table detection in heteroge- neous documents. In Proceedings of the 9th IAPR Interna- tional Workshop on Document Analysis Systems , pages 65– 72, 2010. 2 [29] Shoaib Ahmed Siddiqui, Imran Ali Fateh, Syed Tah- seen Raza Rizvi, Andreas Dengel, and Sheraz Ahmed. Deeptabstr: Deep learning based table structure recognition. In 2019 International Conference on Document Analysis and Recognition (ICDAR), pages 1403–1409. IEEE, 2019. 3 [30] Peter W J Staar, Michele Dolfi, Christoph Auer, and Costas Bekas. Corpus conversion service: A machine learning plat- form to ingest documents at scale. In Proceedings of the 24th ACM SIGKDD, KDD '18, pages 774–782, New York, NY, USA, 2018. ACM. 1 [31] Ashish Vaswani, Noam Shazeer, Niki Parmar, Jakob Uszko- reit, Llion Jones, Aidan N Gomez, Ł ukasz Kaiser, and Il- lia Polosukhin. Attention is all you need. In I. Guyon, U. V. Luxburg, S. Bengio, H. Wallach, R. Fergus, S. Vish- wanathan, and R. Garnett, editors, Advances in Neural In- formation Processing Systems 30 , pages 5998–6008. Curran Associates, Inc., 2017. 5 [32] Oriol Vinyals, Alexander Toshev, Samy Bengio, and Du- mitru Erhan. Show and tell: A neural image caption gen- erator. In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR) , June 2015. 2 [33] Wenyuan Xue, Qingyong Li, and Dacheng Tao. Res2tim: reconstruct syntactic structures from table images. In 2019 International Conference on Document Analysis and Recog- nition (ICDAR), pages 749–755. IEEE, 2019. 3 [34] Wenyuan Xue, Baosheng Yu, Wen Wang, Dacheng Tao, and Qingyong Li. Tgrnet: A table graph reconstruction network for table structure recognition. arXiv preprint arXiv:2106.10598, 2021. 3 [35] Quanzeng You, Hailin Jin, Zhaowen Wang, Chen Fang, and Jiebo Luo. Image captioning with semantic attention. In Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern recognition, pages 4651–4659, 2016. 4 [36] Xinyi Zheng, Doug Burdick, Lucian Popa, Peter Zhong, and Nancy Xin Ru Wang. Global table extractor (gte): A frame- work for joint table identification and cell structure recogni- tion using visual context. Winter Conference for Applications in Computer Vision (WACV) , 2021. 2 , 3 [37] Xu Zhong, Elaheh ShafieiBavani, and Antonio Ji- meno Yepes. Image-based table recognition: Data, model,

[38] Xu

## 2019 International

and evaluation. In Brox, and Jan-Michael

tional Publishing. 2 , 3, 7

Andrea Vedaldi, Horst Bischof, Thomas Frahm, editors, Computer Vision – ECCV 2020, pages 564–580, Cham, 2020. Springer Interna-

Zhong, Jianbin Tang, and Antonio Jimeno Yepes. Pub- laynet: Largest dataset ever for document layout analysis. In Conference on Document Analysis and Recognition (ICDAR), pages 1015–1022, 2019. 1

## 11

ances in regard to their size, structure, style and content. 1. Details on the datasets Every synthetic dataset contains 150k examples, summing 1.1. Data preparation up to 600k synthetic examples. All datasets are divided into Train, Test and Val splits (80%, 10%, 10%). As a first step of our data preparation process, we have The process of generating a synthetic dataset can be de- calculated statistics over the datasets across the following composed into the following steps: dimensions: (1) table size measured in the number of rows and columns, (2) complexity of the table, (3) strictness of 1. Prepare styling and content templates: The styling the provided HTML structure and (4) completeness (i.e. no templates have been manually designed and organized into omitted bounding boxes). A table is considered to be simplegroups of scope specific appearances (e.g. financial data, if it does not contain row spans or column spans. Addition-marketing data, etc.) Additionally, we have prepared cu- ally, a table has a strict HTML structure if every row has the rated collections of content templates by extracting the most same number of columns after taking into account any row frequently used terms out of non-synthetic datasets (e.g. or column spans. Therefore a strict HTML structure looks PubTabNet, FinTabNet, etc.). always rectangular. However, HTML is a lenient encoding 2. Generate table structures: The structure of each syn- format, i.e. tables with rows of different sizes might still thetic dataset assumes a horizontal table header which po- be regarded as correct due to implicit display rules. These tentially spans over multiple rows and a table body that implicit rules leave room for ambiguity, which we want to may contain a combination of row spans and column spans. avoid. As such, we prefer to have "strict" tables, i.e. tablesHowever, spans are not allowed to cross the header - body where every row has exactly the same length. boundary. The table structure is described by the parame- We have developed a technique that tries to derive a ters: Total number of table rows and columns, number of missing bounding box out of its neighbors. As a first step,header rows, type of spans (header only spans, row only we use the annotation data to generate the most fine-grainedspans, column only spans, both row and column spans), grid that covers the table structure. In case of strict HTMLmaximum span size and the ratio of the table area covered tables, all grid squares are associated with some table cell by spans. and in the presence of table spans a cell extends across mul- 3. Generate content: Based on the dataset theme, a set of tiple grid squares. When enough bounding boxes are known suitable content templates is chosen first. Then, this content for a rectangular table, it is possible to compute the geo- can be combined with purely random text to produce the metrical border lines between the grid rows and columns. synthetic content. Eventually this information is used to generate the missing 4. Apply styling templates: Depending on the domain bounding boxes. Additionally, the existence of unused grid of the synthetic dataset, a set of styling templates is first squares indicates that the table rows have unequal number manually selected. Then, a style is randomly selected to of columns and the overall structure is non-strict. The gen- format the appearance of the synthesized table. eration of missing bounding boxes for non-strict HTML ta- 5. Render the complete tables: The synthetic table is bles is ambiguous and therefore quite challenging. Thus, finally rendered by a web browser engine to generate the we have decided to simply discard those tables. In case of bounding boxes for each table cell. A batching technique is PubTabNet we have computed missing bounding boxes for utilized to optimize the runtime overhead of the rendering 48% of the simple and 69% of the complex tables. Regard- process. ing FinTabNet, 68% of the simple and 98% of the complex tables require the generation of bounding boxes. 2. Prediction post-processing for PDF docu- Figure 7 illustrates the distribution of the tables across ments different dimensions per dataset. Although TableFormer can predict the table structure and 1.2. Synthetic datasets the bounding boxes for tables recognized inside PDF docu- ments, this is not enough when a full reconstruction of the Aiming to train and evaluate our models in a broader original table is required. This happens mainly due the fol- spectrum of table data we have synthesized four types of datasets. Each one contains tables with different appear- lowing reasons:

### TableFormer: Table Structure Understanding with Transformers Supplementary Material

## 12

size for all table cells. The usage of median dur- • TableFormer output does not include the table cell con-dian cell tent. ing the computations, helps to eliminate outliers caused by occasional column spans which are usually wider than the • There are occasional inaccuracies in the predictions of normal. the bounding boxes. 6. Snap all cells with bad IOU to their corresponding median x -coordinates and cell sizes. However, it is possible to mitigate those limitations by 7. Generate a new set of pair-wise matches between the combining the TableFormer predictions with the informa- corrected bounding boxes and PDF cells. This time use a tion already present inside a programmatic PDF document. modified version of the IOU metric, where the area of the More specifically, PDF documents can be seen as a se- intersection between the predicted and PDF cells is divided quence of PDF cells where each cell is described by its con- by the PDF cell area. In case there are multiple matches tent and bounding box. If we are able to associate the PDF for the same PDF cell, the prediction with the higher score cells with the predicted table cells, we can directly link the is preferred. This covers the cases where the PDF cells are PDF cell content to the table cell structure and use the PDF smaller than the area of predicted or corrected prediction bounding boxes to correct misalignments in the predicted cells. table cell bounding boxes. 8. In some rare occasions, we have noticed that Table- Here is a step-by-step description of the prediction post- Former can confuse a single column as two. When the post- processing: processing steps are applied, this results with two predicted 1. Get the minimal grid dimensions - number of rows and columns pointing to the same PDF column. In such case columns for the predicted table structure. This represents we must de-duplicate the columns according to highest to- the most granular grid for the underlying table structure. tal column intersection score. 2. Generate pair-wise matches between the bounding 9. Pick up the remaining orphan cells. There could be boxes of the PDF cells and the predicted cells. The Intersec- cases, when after applying all the previous post-processing tion Over Union (IOU) metric is used to evaluate the quality steps, some PDF cells could still remain without any match of the matches. to predicted cells. However, it is still possible to deduce 3. Use a carefully selected IOU threshold to designate the correct matching for an orphan PDF cell by mapping its the matches as "good" ones and "bad" ones. bounding box on the geometry of the grid. This mapping 3.a. If all IOU scores in a column are below the thresh- decides if the content of the orphan cell will be appended to old, discard all predictions (structure and bounding boxes) an already matched table cell, or a new table cell should be for that column. created to match with the orphan. 4. Find the best-fitting content alignment for the pre- 9a. Compute the top and bottom boundary of the hori- dicted cells with good IOU per each column. The alignment zontal band for each grid row (min/max y coordinates per of the column can be identified by the following formula: row). 9b. Intersect the orphan's bounding box with the row bands, and map the cell to the closest grid row. alignment = arg min { D }

c

9c. Compute the left and right boundary of the vertical

c

(4) band for each grid column (min/max x coordinates per col- D = max { x } − min { x }

c c c

umn). 9d. Intersect the orphan's bounding box with the column where c is one of { left, centroid, right} and x is the x-

c

bands, and map the cell to the closest grid column. coordinate for the corresponding point. 9e. If the table cell under the identified row and column 5. Use the alignment computed in step 4, to compute is not empty, extend its content with the content of the or- the median x -coordinate for all table columns and the me-

_Figure 7: Distribution of the tables across different dimensions per dataset. Simple_

!T"#

Tsain4aR /ClmRe0 2ilmRe /ClmRe0 2ilmRe

2ilmRe

TsainTe7t4aR /ClmRe02ilmRe /ClmRe02ilmRe

2tsi t 2ilmRe !T"#

TsainTe7t4aR

bbC0e7

2ilmRe 2ilmRe

strict vs non strict html structures per dataset and table complexity, missing bboxes per dataset and table complexity.

"i77in) 2ilmRe bbC0e7 2tsi t

msC-i+e

b+ 1335

/ClmRe0

PubTabNet $K38$%38 6338138 $K38$%38 NCn /Cntain 2tsi t "i77in) !T"# bbC0e7

1335

/ClmRe0

FinTabNet 918138138 &68 '(8 NCn 2tsi t !T"#

&68 '(8

/Cntain

## 1335 1K3868 138

TabRe oanw 1'68 1'68 NCn 2tsi t *ata7et !T"# +Ce7n,t

vs complex tables per dataset and split,

_Figure 10: Example of a complex table with empty cells._

## 13

_Figure 8: Example of a table with multi-line header._

_Figure 9: tween cells._

phan cell. 9f. Otherwise create a new structural cell and match it wit the orphan cell. Aditional images with examples of TableFormer predic- tions and post-processing can be found below.

#### Example of a table with big empty distance be-

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

_Figure 12: Simple table predictions and post processing._

## 14

_Figure 14: Example with multi-line text._

_Figure 11: Simple table with different style and empty cells. Figure 13: Table predictions example on colorful table._

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

_Figure 15: Example with triangular table. Figure 16: Example of how post-processing helps to restore mis-aligned bounding boxes prediction artifact._

## 15

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

## 16

_Figure 17: Example of long table. End-to-end example from initial PDF cells to prediction of bounding boxes, post process- ing and prediction of structure._

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->