Permission to make digital or hard copies of part or all of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation on the first page. Copyrights for third-party components of this work must be honored. For all other uses, contact the owner/author(s). KDD '22, August 14–18, 2022, Washington, DC, USA © 2022 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). ACM ISBN 978-1-4503-9385-0/22/08. https://doi.org/10.1145/3534678.3539043

CCS CONCEPTS • Information systems → Document structure; • Applied com- puting → Document analysis; • Computing methodologies → Machine learning; Computer vision; Object detection;

ABSTRACT Accurate document layout analysis is a key requirement for high- quality PDF document conversion. With the recent availability of public, large ground-truth datasets such as PubLayNet and DocBank, deep-learning models have proven to be very effective at layout detection and segmentation. While these datasets are of adequate size to train such models, they severely lack in layout variability since they are sourced from scientific article repositories such as PubMed and arXiv only. Consequently, the accuracy of the layout segmentation drops significantly when these models are applied on more challenging and diverse layouts. In this paper, we present DocLayNet, a new, publicly available, document-layout annotation dataset in COCO format. It contains 80863 manually annotated pages from diverse data sources to represent a wide variability in layouts. For each PDF page, the layout annotations provide labelled bounding-boxes with a choice of 11 distinct classes. DocLayNet also provides a subset of double- and triple-annotated pages to determine the inter-annotator agreement. In multiple experiments, we provide baseline accuracy scores (in mAP) for a set of popular object detection models. We also demonstrate that these models fall approximately 10% behind the inter-annotator agreement. Fur- thermore, we provide evidence that DocLayNet is of sufficient size. Lastly, we compare models trained on PubLayNet, DocBank and DocLayNet, showing that layout predictions of the DocLayNet- trained models are more robust and thus the preferred choice for general-purpose document-layout analysis.

Birgit Pfitzmann IBM Research Rueschlikon, Switzerland bpf@zurich.ibm.com Ahmed S. Nassar IBM Research Rueschlikon, Switzerland ahn@zurich.ibm.com

## DocLayNet: A Large

13

1: Four examples of complex page layouts across dif-ferent document categoriesKEYWORDS PDF conversion, layout segmentation, object-detection,data set, Machine Learning ACM Reference Format: Birgit Pfitzmann, Christoph Auer, Michele Dolfi, Ahmed S. Nassar, and PeterStaar. 2022. DocLayNet: A Large Human-Annotated Dataset for Document-Layout Analysis. In Proceedings of the 28th ACM SIGKDD Conference onKnowledge Discovery and Data Mining (KDD '22), August 14–18, 2022, Wash-ington, DC, USA. ACM, New York, NY, USA, 9 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/3534678.3539043 arXiv:2206.01062v1 [cs.CV] 2 Jun 2022 c erti v 1. The MODELS AY11230/11234 -

al tu be can b e u se d for instructional viewing or to photograph the image with a digital camera or a micro TV unit 2. Loosen the retention screw , then rotate the adjustment ring to change the le n g t h of t he ve r t ic a l t u be. 3. Make sur e t hat bo th the im a g e s in OPERATION ( cont . ) SELECTING OBJECTIVE MAGNIFICATIO N 1. There are two objectives. The lower magnification objective has a greater depth of field and view . 2. In order to observe the specimen easily use the lower magnification ob j e c tive fir s t . Then, b y ro ta ting the case, the magnification can be changed. CHANGING THE INTERPUPILLARY DISTANCE 1. The distance between the observer's pupils is the interpupillary distance. 2. T o adjust the interpupillary distance rotate the prism caps until both eyes coincide with the image in the eyepiece. FOCUSING 1. R e m o ve the lens protectiv e c o v e r . 2. Place the specimen on the working stage . 3. F o cus the specimen with the left eye first while turning the focus knob until th e image app ea r s c l ea r an d sharp. 4. R o tate the right eyepiece ring until the images in each eyepiece coincide and are sharp and clea r . CHANGING THE BULB 1. Disconnect the power cord . 2. W h e n the b u lb i s coo l , r e m o ve the oblique illumi nato r ca p an d r e move e h alog e n b u lb w i th ca p. 3. R e place with a new halogen bulb . 4. Open the window in the base plate and replace the halogen lamp or fluorescent lamp of tr ansmitted illuminato r . 1. T urn t h e focusi n g kn o b a way o r t oward y o u u n til a cl e ar imag e is v ie w ed . 2. If the image is unclear , adjust the height of the elev ator up or down, then turn the focusing knob again. ZOOM MAGNIFICATIO N 1. T urn the zoom magnification knob to the desired magnification and field of view . 2. In most situations, it is recommended t h at y ou focu s at t he lowe s t m a gnific a tion , the n m o ve t o a higher magnification and re-focus as necessary . 3. If the image is not clear to both eyes at the same time, the diopter ring may need adjustment. DIOPTER RING ADJUSTMENT 1. T o adjust the eyepiece for viewing with or without eyeglasses and for differences in acuity between the right and left eyes, follow the following steps: a. Observe an image through the left eyepiece and bring a specific point i n to focu s u si n g th e f o cus knob. b . By turning t he diop t er ring adjustment for the left eyepiece, bring the same point into sharp focus. c.Then bring the same point into focus through the right eyepiece by turning the right diopter ring . d.With more than one viewer , each viewer should note their own diopter ring position for the left and right eyepieces, then before viewing set the diopter ring adjustments to that setting . 1. Disconnect the power cord from the electrical outlet . 2 . Wh e n t h e bulb is c ool, remove the obliq u e illumin a tor c ap and remove h e h a logen b u lb with cap. 3. R e . 4. Open the window in the base plate and replace the halogen lamp or r . Model AY11230 Model AY11234 14 Ob j e c tiv e s R e volving T urre t Coarse Adjustmen t Knob MODEL AY11236 MICROSCOPE USAG E BARSKA Model A Y 11236 is a powerful fi x e d power compound microscope designed for biological studies such as specimen examination. It can also be used for examining bacteria and for gene r a l clinical and medical studies and other scientific uses. CONSTRUCTION A Y 11236 is a fi x e d power compound microscope. It is constructed with two optical paths at the same angle. It is equipped with tr ansmitted illumination. By using this instrument, the user can observe specimens at magnification from 40x to 1000x by selecting the desired objective lens. Coarse and fine focus adjustments provide accu r a cy and image detail. The rotating head allows the user to position the eyepieces for maximum viewing comfort and easy access to all adjustment knobs. Model AY11236 Fine t Knob Stag e Condenser F o cusing Knob Eyepiece Stan d Lamp On/Of f Switch P o we r Cord R o tating Head Stage Clip t Interpupillary Slide Adjustmen t Circling Minimums 7KHUHAZDVADAFKDQJHAWRAWKHA7+536AFULWHULDALQAGC2GAWKDWADႇHFWVAFLUFOLQJADUHDAGLPHQVLRQAE\AH[SDQGLQJAWKHADUHDVAWRASURYLGHA improved obstacle protection. To indicate that the new criteria had been applied to a given procedure, a is placed on the circling line of minimums. The new circling tables and explanatory information is located in the Legend of the TPP. 7KHADSSURDFKHVAXVLQJAVWDQGDUGAFLUFOLQJADSSURDFKADUHDVAFDQAEHALGHQWL¿HGAE\AWKHADEVHQFHARIAWKHA on the circling line of minima. $SSO\#6WDQGDUG#&LUFOLQJ#$SSURDFK#0DQHXYHULQJ#5DGLXV#7DEOH $SSO\#([SDQGHG#&LUFOLQJ#$SSURDFK#0DQHXYHULQJ#$LUVSDFH#5DGLXV# Table AIRPORT SKETCH The airport sketch is a depiction of the airport with emphasis on runway pattern and related information, positioned in either the lower left or lower right corner of the chart to aid pi -lot recognition of the airport from the air and to provide some information to aid on ground navigation of the airport. The runways are drawn to scale and oriented to true north. Runway dimensions (length and width) are shown for all active runways. Runway(s) are depicted based on what type and construction of the runway. Hard Surface Other Than Metal Surface Closed Runway Under Construction Stopways, Taxiways, Park -ing Areas Displaced Threshold Closed Pavement Water Runway Taxiways and aprons are shaded grey. Other runway features that may be shown are runway numbers, runway dimen -sions, runway slope, arresting gear, and displaced threshold. 2WKHUALQIRUPDWLRQAFRQFHUQLQJAOLJKWLQJEA¿QDOADSSURDFKAEHDULQJVEADLUSRUWAEHDFRQEAREVWDFOHVEAFRQWUROAWRZHU EA10904$VEAKHOL -pads may also be shown. $LUSRUW!(OHYDWLRQ!DQG!7RXFKGRZQ!=RQH!(OHYDWLRQ The airport elevation is shown enclosed within a box in the upper left corner of the sketch box and the touchdown zone elevation (TDZE) is shown in the upper right corner of the sketch box. The airport elevation is the highest point of an DLUSRUW¶VAXVDEOHAUXQZD\VAPHDVXUHGALQAIHHWAIURPAPHDQAVHDAOHYHO<A7KHA7$=+ALVAWKHAKLJKHVWAHOHYDWLRQALQAWKHA¿UVWAJECCCAIHHWARIA the landing surface. Circling only approaches will not show a TDZE. 114 FAA Chart Users' Guide - Terminal Procedures Publication (TPP) - Terms AGL 2013 Financial Calendar 22 August 2012 2012 full year result and final dividend announced 30 August 2012 Ex-dividend trading commences 5 September 2012 Record date for 2012 final dividend 27 September 2012 Final dividend payable 23 October 2012 Annual General Meeting 27 February 2013 1 2013 interim result and interim dividend announced 28 August 2013 1 2013 full year results and final dividend announced 1 Indicative dates only, subject to change/Board confirmation AGL's Annual General Meeting will be held at the City Recital Hall, Angel Place, Sydney commencing at 10.30am on Tuesday 23 October 2012. Yesterday Established in Sydney in 1837, and then known as The Australian Gas Light Company, the AGL business has an established history and reputation for serving the gas and electricity needs of Australian households. In 1841, when AGL supplied the gas to light the first public street lamp, it was reported in the Sydney Gazette as a "wonderful achievement of scientific knowledge, assisted by mechanical ingenuity." Within two years, 165 gas lamps were lighting the City of Sydney. Looking back on 175 years of looking forward. AGL Energy Limited ABN 74 115 061 375 29 signs, signals and road markings 3 In chapter 2, you and your vehicle, you learned about some of the controls in your vehicle. This chapter is a handy reference section that gives examples of the most common signs, signals and road markings that keep traffic organized and flowing smoothly. Signs There are three ways to read signs: by their shape, colour and the messages printed on them. Understanding these three ways of classifying signs will help you figure out the meaning of signs that are new to you. Stop Yield the right-of-way Shows driving regulations Explains lane use School zone signs are fluorescent yellow-green Tells about motorist services Shows a permitted action Shows an action that is not permitted Warns of hazards ahead Warns of construction zones Railway crossing Shows distance and direction • – regulatory signs – school, playground and crosswalk signs – lane use signs – turn control signs – parking signs – reserved lane signs – warning signs – object markers – construction – information and destination signs – railway signs • Signals – lane control signals – traffic lights • Road markings – yellow lines – white lines – markings – other markings in this chapter Figure

USING THE VERTICAL TUBE

IBM Research

## Document-Layout

#### Christoph Auer

Rueschlikon, Switzerland cau@zurich.ibm.com

## Analysis

### Peter Staar IBM Research Rueschlikon, Switzerland taa@zurich.ibm.com

### Michele Dolfi IBM Research Rueschlikon, Switzerland dol@zurich.ibm.com

## Human-Annotated Dataset for

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

1 INTRODUCTION This enables experimentation with annotation uncertainty and quality control analysis. (5) Pre-defined Train-, Test- & Validation-set : Like DocBank, we Despite the substantial improvements achieved with machine-learning provide fixed train-, test- & validation-sets to ensure propor- (ML) approaches and deep neural networks in recent years, docu- tional representation of the class-labels. Further, we prevent ment conversion remains a challenging problem, as demonstrated leakage of unique layouts across sets, which has a large effect by the numerous public competitions held on this topic 1–4 ]. [ The on model accuracy scores. challenge originates from the huge variability in PDF documents regarding layout, language and formats (scanned, programmatic All aspects outlined above are detailed in Section 3. In Section 4, or a combination of both). Engineering a single ML model that can we will elaborate on how we designed and executed this large-scale be applied on all types of documents and provides high-quality human annotation campaign. We will also share key insights and layout segmentation remains to this day extremely challenging 5]. [ lessons learned that might prove helpful for other parties planning To highlight the variability in document layouts, we show a few to set up annotation campaigns. example documents from the DocLayNet dataset in Figure 1. In Section 5, we will present baseline accuracy numbers for a A key problem in the process of document conversion is to under- variety of object detection methods (Faster R-CNN, Mask R-CNN stand the structure of a single document page, i.e. which segments and YOLOv5) trained on DocLayNet. We further show how the of text should be grouped together in a unit. To train models for this model performance is impacted by varying the DocLayNet dataset task, there are currently two large datasets available to the com- size, reducing the label set and modifying the train/test-split. Last munity, PubLayNet [ 6] and DocBank 7 []. They were introduced but not least, we compare the performance of models trained on in 2019 and 2020 respectively and significantly accelerated the im- PubLayNet, DocBank and DocLayNet and demonstrate that a model plementation of layout detection and segmentation models due to trained on DocLayNet provides overall more robust layout recovery. their sizes of 300K and 500K ground-truth pages. These sizes were achieved by leveraging an automation approach. The benefit of au- 2 RELATED WORK tomated ground-truth generation is obvious: one can generate large ground-truth datasets at virtually no cost. However, the automation While early approaches in document-layout analysis used rule- introduces a constraint on the variability in the dataset, because based algorithms and heuristics8 [ ], the problem is lately addressed corresponding structured source data must be available. PubLayNet with deep learning methods. The most common approach is to lever- and DocBank were both generated from scientific document repos- age object detection models9 [ –15]. In the last decade, the accuracy A itories (PubMed and arXiv), which provide XML or T X L sources. E and speed of these models has increased dramatically. Furthermore, Those scientific documents present a limited variability in their most state-of-the-art object detection methods can be trained and layouts, because they are typeset in uniform templates provided by applied with very little work, thanks to a standardisation effort the publishers. Obviously, documents such as technical manuals, of the ground-truth data format 16 [ ] and common deep-learning annual company reports, legal text, government tenders, etc. have frameworks [17]. Reference data sets such as PubLayNet 6] and [ very different and partially unique layouts. As a consequence, the DocBank provide their data in the commonly accepted COCO for- layout predictions obtained from models trained on PubLayNet or mat [16]. DocBank is very reasonable when applied on scientific documents. Lately, new types of ML models for document-layout analysis However, for more artistic or free-style layouts, we see sub-par have emerged in the community18 [–21]. These models do not prediction quality from these models, which we demonstrate in approach the problem of layout analysis purely based on an image Section 5. representation of the page, as computer vision methods do. Instead, In this paper, we present the DocLayNet dataset. It provides page- they combine the text tokens and image representation of a page by-page layout annotation ground-truth using bounding-boxes for in order to obtain a segmentation. While the reported accuracies 11 distinct class labels on 80863 unique document pages, of which appear to be promising, a broadly accepted data format which links a fraction carry double- or triple-annotations. DocLayNet is similar geometric and textual features has yet to establish. in spirit to PubLayNet and DocBank and will likewise be made 1 available to the publicin order to stimulate the document-layout 3 THE DOCLAYNET DATASET analysis community. It distinguishes itself in the following aspects: (1) Human Annotation: In contrast to PubLayNet and DocBank, DocLayNet contains 80863 PDF pages. Among these, 7059 carry two we relied on human annotation instead of automation ap- instances of human annotations, and 1591 carry three. This amounts proaches to generate the data set. to 91104 total annotation instances. The annotations provide lay- (2) Large Layout Variability : We include diverse and complex out information in the shape of labeled, rectangular bounding- layouts from a large variety of public sources. boxes. We define 11 distinct labels for layout features, namely Cap- (3) Detailed Label Set: We define 11 class labels to distinguish tion, Footnote, Formula, List-item, Page-footer, Page-header, Picture, layout features in high detail. PubLayNet provides 5 labels; Section-header, Table, Text, and Title. Our reasoning for picking this DocBank provides 13, although not a superset of ours. particular label set is detailed in Section 4. (4) Redundant Annotations: A fraction of the pages in the Do- In addition to open intellectual property constraints for the cLayNet data set carry more than one human annotation. source documents, we required that the documents in DocLayNet

1

adhere to a few conditions. Firstly, we kept scanned documents https://developer.ibm.com/exchanges/data/all/doclaynet

KDD '22, August 14–18, 2022, Washington, DC, USA Birgit Pfitzmann, Christoph Auer, Michele Dolfi, Ahmed S. Nassar, and Peter Staar

Table 1 shows the overall frequency and distribution of the labels Scientific among the different sets. Importantly, we ensure that subsets are only split on full-document boundaries. This avoids that pages of Financial 17% the same document are spread over train, test and validation set, 32% which can give an undesired evaluation advantage to models and Patents 8% lead to overestimation of their prediction accuracy. We will show the impact of this decision in Section 5. In order to accommodate the different types of models currently 6% 21% in use by the community, we provide DocLayNet in augmented an 16% COCO format [ 16]. This entails the standard COCO ground-truth Tenders Manuals file (in JSON format) with the associated page images (in PNG format, 1025 × 1025 pixels). Furthermore, custom fields have been Laws added to each COCO record to specify document category, original document filename and page number. In addition, we also provide Figure 2: Distribution of DocLayNet pages across document the original PDF pages, as well as sidecar files containing parsed categories. PDF text and text-cell coordinates (in JSON). All additional files are linked to the primary page images by their matching filenames. Despite being cost-intense and far less scalable than automation, to a minimum, since they introduce difficulties in annotation (see human annotation has several benefits over automated ground- Section 4). As a second condition, we focussed on medium to large truth generation. The first and most obvious reason to leverage documents ( > 10 pages) with technical content, dense in complex human annotations is the freedom to annotate any type of doc- tables, figures, plots and captions. Such documents carry a lot of ument without requiring a programmatic source. For most PDF information value, but are often hard to analyse with high accuracy documents, the original source document is not available. The lat- due to their challenging layouts. Counterexamples of documents ter is not a hard constraint with human annotation, but it is for not included in the dataset are receipts, invoices, hand-written automated methods. A second reason to use human annotations is documents or photographs showing "text in the wild". that the latter usually provide a more natural interpretation of the The pages in DocLayNet can be grouped into six distinct cate- page layout. The human-interpreted layout can significantly devi- gories, namely Financial Reports, Manuals, Scientific Articles, Laws & ate from the programmatic layout used in typesetting. For example, Regulations, Patents and Government Tenders. Each document cate- "invisible" tables might be used solely for aligning text paragraphs gory was sourced from various repositories. For example, Financial on columns. Such typesetting tricks might be interpreted by au- 2 Reports contain both free-style format annual reports which ex- tomated methods incorrectly as an actual table, while the human pose company-specific, artistic layouts as well as the more formal annotation will interpret it correctly as Text or other styles. The SEC filings. The two largest categories Financial ( Reports and Man- same applies to multi-line text elements, when authors decided to uals) contain a large amount of free-style layouts in order to obtain space them as "invisible" list elements without bullet symbols. A maximum variability. In the other four categories, we boosted the third reason to gather ground-truth through human annotation is variability by mixing documents from independent providers, such to estimate a "natural" upper bound on the segmentation accuracy. as different government websites or publishers. In Figure 2, we As we will show in Section 4, certain documents featuring complex show the document categories contained in DocLayNet with their layouts can have different but equally acceptable layout interpre- respective sizes. tations. This natural upper bound for segmentation accuracy can We did not control the document selection with regard to lan- be found by annotating the same pages multiple times by different guage. The vast majority of documents contained in DocLayNet people and evaluating the inter-annotator agreement. Such a base- (close to 95%) are published in English language. However, Do- line consistency evaluation is very useful to define expectations cLayNet also contains a number of documents in other languages for a good target accuracy in trained deep neural network models such as German (2.5%), French (1.0%) and Japanese (1.0%). While and avoid overfitting (see Table 1). On the flip side, achieving high the document language has negligible impact on the performance annotation consistency proved to be a key challenge in human of computer vision methods such as object detection and segmenta- annotation, as we outline in Section 4. tion models, it might prove challenging for layout analysis methods which exploit textual features. 4 ANNOTATION CAMPAIGN To ensure that future benchmarks in the document-layout analy- sis community can be easily compared, we have split up DocLayNet The annotation campaign was carried out in four phases. In phase into pre-defined train-, test- and validation-sets. In this way, we can one, we identified and prepared the data sources for annotation. avoid spurious variations in the evaluation scores due to random In phase two, we determined the class labels and how annotations splitting in train-, test- and validation-sets. We also ensured that should be done on the documents in order to obtain maximum con- less frequent labels are represented in train and test sets in equal sistency. The latter was guided by a detailed requirement analysis proportions. and exhaustive experiments. In phase three, we trained the annota-

2

tion staff and performed exams for quality assurance. In phase four, e.g. AAPL from https://www.annualreports.com/

DocLayNet: A Large Human-Annotated Dataset for Document-Layout Analysis KDD '22, August 14–18, 2022, Washington, DC, USA

only. were assembled and supervised. Phase 1: Data selection and preparation.

be drawn by dragging a rectangle over each the respective label from the palette on the right.

3 include publication repositories such as arXiv , government offices, company websites as well as data directory services for financial reports and patents. Scanned documents were excluded wherever possible because they can be rotated or skewed. This would not allow us to perform annotation with rectangular bounding-boxes and therefore complicate the annotation process. Preparation work included uploading and parsing the sourced PDF documents in the Corpus Conversion Service (CCS) 22], [ a cloud-native platform which provides a visual annotation interface and allows for dataset inspection and analysis. The annotation in- terface of CCS is shown in Figure 3. The desired balance of pages between the different document categories was achieved by se- lective subsampling of pages with certain desired properties. For example, we made sure to include the title page of each document and bias the remaining page selection to those with figures or tables. The latter was achieved by leveraging pre-trained object detection models from PubLayNet, which helped us estimate how many figures and tables a given page contains. Phase 2: Label selection and guideline. We reviewed the col- lected documents and identified the most common structural fea- tures they exhibit. This was achieved by identifying recurrent layout elements and lead us to the definition of 11 distinct class labels. These 11 class labels are Caption, Footnote, Formula, List-item, Page- Figure 3: Corpus Conversion Service annotation user inter- footer, Page-header, Picture, Section-header, Table, Text, and Title. face. The PDF page is shown in the background, with over- Critical factors that were considered for the choice of these class laid text-cells (in darker shades). The annotation boxes can labels were (1) the overall occurrence of the label, (2) the specificity segment with of the label, (3) recognisability on a single page (i.e. no need for context from previous or next page) and (4) overall coverage of the page. Specificity ensures that the choice of label is not ambiguous, while coverage ensures that all meaningful items on a page can we distributed the annotation workload and performed continuous be annotated. We refrained from class labels that are very specific quality controls. Phase one and two required a small team of experts to a document category, such as Abstract in the Scientific Articles For phases three and four, a group of 40 dedicated annotators category. We also avoided class labels that are tightly linked to the semantics of the text. Labels such Author as and Affiliation, as seen Our inclusion cri- in DocBank, are often only distinguishable by discriminating on teria for documents were described in Section 3. A large effort went

3

into ensuring that all documents are free to use. The data sources https://arxiv.org/

class label Caption Footnote Formula List-item Page-footer Page-header Picture

_Table Text Title Total_

% of Total triple inter-annotator mAP @ 0.5-0.95 (%) Count Train Test Val All Fin Man Sci Law Pat Ten 22524 2.04 1.77 2.32 84-89 40-61 86-92 94-99 95-99 69-78 n/a 6318 0.60 0.31 0.58 83-91 n/a 100 62-88 85-94 n/a 82-97 25027 2.25 1.90 2.96 83-85 n/a n/a 84-87 86-96 n/a n/a 185660 17.19 13.34 15.82 87-88 74-83 90-92 97-97 81-85 75-88 93-95 70878 6.51 5.58 6.00 93-94 88-90 95-96 100 92-97 100 96-98 58022 5.10 6.70 5.06 85-89 66-76 90-94 98-100 91-92 97-99 81-86 45976 4.21 2.78 5.31 69-71 56-59 82-86 69-82 80-95 66-71 59-76 Section-header 142884 12.60 15.77 12.85 83-84 76-81 90-92 94-95 87-94 69-73 78-86 34733 3.20 2.27 3.60 77-81 75-80 83-86 98-99 58-80 79-84 70-85 510377 45.82 49.28 45.00 84-86 81-86 88-93 89-93 87-92 71-79 87-95 5071 0.47 0.30 0.50 60-72 24-63 50-63 94-100 82-96 68-79 24-56 1107470 941123 99816 66531 82-83 71-74 79-81 89-94 86-91 71-76 68-85

Table 1: DocLayNet dataset overview. Along with the frequency of each class label, we present the relative occurrence (as % of row "Total") in the train, test and validation sets. The inter-annotator agreement is computed as the mAP@0.5-0.95 metric between pairwise annotations from the triple-annotated pages, from which we obtain accuracy ranges.

KDD '22, August 14–18, 2022, Washington, DC, USA Birgit Pfitzmann, Christoph Auer, Michele Dolfi, Ahmed S. Nassar, and Peter Staar

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

(1) Every list-item is an individual object instance with class label List-item. This definition is different from PubLayNet

D

and DocBank, where all list-items are grouped together into one List object. (2) A List-item is a paragraph with hanging indentation. Single- line elements can qualify as List-item if the neighbour ele- ments expose hanging indentation. Bullet or enumeration symbols are not a requirement. (3) For every Caption, there must be exactly one corresponding Picture or Table. (4) Connected sub-pictures are grouped together in one Picture object. (5) Formula numbers are included in Formula a object. (6) Emphasised text (e.g. in italic or bold) at the beginning of a paragraph is not considered Section-header a , unless it appears exclusively on its own line.

The complete annotation guideline is over 100 pages long and a detailed description is obviously out of scope for this paper. Never- theless, it will be made publicly available alongside with DocLayNet for future reference. Phase 3: Training. After a first trial with a small group of peo- ple, we realised that providing the annotation guideline and a set of random practice pages did not yield the desired quality level for lay- out annotation. Therefore we prepared a subset of pages with two different complexity levels, each with a practice and an exam part. 974 pages were reference-annotated by one proficient core team member. Annotation staff were then given the task to annotate the same subsets (blinded from the reference). By comparing the an- notations of each staff member with the reference annotations, we could quantify how closely their annotations matched the reference. Only after passing two exam levels with high annotation quality, staff were admitted into the production phase. Practice iterations

are:

the textual content of an element, which goes beyond visual layout

A

recognition, in particular outside the Scientific Articles category. At first sight, the task of visual document-layout interpretation appears intuitive enough to obtain plausible annotations in most cases. However, during early trial-runs in the core team, we ob- served many cases in which annotators use different annotation styles, especially for documents with challenging layouts. For ex- ample, if a figure is presented with subfigures, one annotator might draw a single figure bounding-box, while another might annotate

B

each subfigure separately. The same applies for lists, where one might annotate all list items in one block or each list item sep- arately. In essence, we observed that challenging layouts would be annotated in different but plausible ways. To illustrate this, we show in Figure 4 multiple examples of plausible but inconsistent annotations on the same pages. Obviously, this inconsistency in annotations is not desirable for

C

datasets which are intended to be used for model training. To min- imise these inconsistencies, we created a detailed annotation guide- line. While perfect consistency across 40 annotation staff members is clearly not possible to achieve, we saw a huge improvement in annotation consistency after the introduction of our annotation guideline. A few selected, non-trivial highlights of the guideline

03c31a2ee1ed1b583c28957f475ee545d144e1b5a264dc4dd068c8d2f6a64860

1a5cd524f1844c1260c8e8c073e1f442423c264583212b0d0b6626fc780e6ed4

DocLayNet: A Large Human-Annotated Dataset for Document-Layout Analysis KDD

Compliant with guidelines

1ef23f5e6d7f10d393f9947e8208285dce9ae87250ac483ac4b4a59d51b4e037

ison with arbitrary segmentation shapes. Second, annotator staff

annotation are obtained by drawing rectangular bounding-boxes,

40 initially allocated annotators did not pass the bar. Phase 4: Production annotation. The previously selected 80K

05237a14f2524e3f53c8454b074409d05078038a6a36b770fcc8ec7e540deae0

_Figure 4: Examples of plausible annotation alternatives for_

solve cases A to C, while the case D remains ambiguous.

Borderline case: Two guideline -compliant alternatives

Plausible but invalid alternative

tors. This production phase took around three months to complete. All annotations were created online through CCS, which visualises the programmatic PDF text-cells as an overlay on the page. The page

as shown in Figure 3. With regard to the annotation practices, we implemented a few constraints and capabilities on the tooling level. First, we only allow non-overlapping, vertically oriented, rectangu- lar boxes. For the large majority of documents, this constraint was sufficient and it speeds up the annotation considerably in compar-

were not able to see each other's annotations. This was enforced by design to avoid any bias in the annotation, which could skew the numbers of the inter-annotator agreement (see Table 1). We wanted

the same page. Criteria in our annotation guideline can re-

'22, August 14–18, 2022, Washington, DC, USA

were carried out over a timeframe of 12 weeks, after which 8 of the

pages were annotated with the defined 11 class labels by 32 annota-

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

to avoid this at any cost in order to have clear, unbiased baseline numbers for human document-layout annotation. Third, we in- paper and leave the detailed evaluation of more recent methods troduced the feature of snapping boxes around text segments to mentioned in Section 2 for future work. obtain a pixel-accurate annotation and again reduce time and effort. In this section, we will present several aspects related to the The CCS annotation tool automatically shrinks every user-drawn performance of object detection models on DocLayNet. Similarly box to the minimum bounding-box around the enclosed text-cells as in PubLayNet, we will evaluate the quality of their predictions for all purely text-based segments, which excludes only Table and using mean average precision (mAP) with 10 overlaps that range Picture. For the latter, we instructed annotation staff to minimise from 0.5 to 0.95 in steps of 0.05 (mAP@0.5-0.95). These scores are inclusion of surrounding whitespace while including all graphical computed by leveraging the evaluation code provided by the COCO lines. A downside of snapping boxes to enclosed text cells is that API [16]. some wrongly parsed PDF pages cannot be annotated correctly and need to be skipped. Fourth, we established a way to flag pages as Baselines for Object Detection rejected for cases where no valid annotation according to the label In Table 2, we present baseline experiments (given in mAP) on Mask guidelines could be achieved. Example cases for this would be PDF R-CNN [12], Faster R-CNN 11 [ ], and YOLOv5 13 [ ]. Both training pages that render incorrectly or contain layouts that are impossible and evaluation were performed on RGB images with dimensions of to capture with non-overlapping rectangles. Such rejected pages are 1025 × 1025 pixels. For training, we only used one annotation in case not contained in the final dataset. With all these measures in place, of redundantly annotated pages. As one can observe, the variation experienced annotation staff managed to annotate a single page in in mAP between the models is rather low, but overall between 6 a typical timeframe of 20s to 60s, depending on its complexity. and 10% lower than the mAP computed from the pairwise human annotations on triple-annotated pages. This gives a good indication 5 EXPERIMENTS that the DocLayNet dataset poses a worthwhile challenge for the research community to close the gap between human recognition The primary goal of DocLayNet is to obtain high-quality ML models and ML approaches. It is interesting to see that Mask R-CNN and capable of accurate document-layout analysis on a wide variety Faster R-CNN produce very comparable mAP scores, indicating of challenging layouts. As discussed in Section 2, object detection that pixel-based image segmentation derived from bounding-boxes models are currently the easiest to use, due to the standardisation does not help to obtain better predictions. On the other hand, the of ground-truth data in COCO format 16 [ ] and the availability of more recent Yolov5x model does very well and even out-performs general frameworks such as detectron2 [17]. Furthermore, baseline humans on selected labels such as Text, Table and Picture. This is numbers in PubLayNet and DocBank were obtained using standard not entirely surprising, as Text, Table and Picture are abundant and object detection models such as Mask R-CNN and Faster R-CNN. the most visually distinctive in a document. As such, we will relate to these object detection methods in this

Footnote Formula List-item Page-footer Page-header Picture

_Table Text Title All_

83-91 70.9 71.8 73.7 77.2 83-85 60.1 63.4 63.5 66.2 87-88 81.2 80.8 81.0 86.2 93-94 61.6 59.3 58.9 61.1 85-89 71.9 70.0 72.0 67.9 69-71 71.7 72.7 72.0 77.1 Section-header 83-84 67.6 69.3 68.4 74.6 77-81 82.2 82.9 82.2 86.3 84-86 84.6 85.8 85.4 88.1 60-72 76.7 80.4 79.9 82.7 82-83 72.4 73.5 73.4 76.8

Figure 5: Prediction performance (mAP@0.5-0.95) of a Mask R-CNN network with ResNet50 backbone trained on increas- ing fractions of the DocLayNet dataset. The learning curve flattens around the 80% mark, indicating that increasing the size of the DocLayNet dataset with similar data will not yield significantly better predictions.

% of DocLayNet training set

## 0 20 40

1

## 10 60 80

2

## 10 100

Caption 84-89 68.4 71.5 70.1 77.7

## 50 50

human MRCNN FRCNN YOLO R50 R101 R101 v5x6

Table 2: Prediction performance (mAP@0.5-0.95) of object detection networks on DocLayNet test set. The MRCNN (Mask R-CNN) and FRCNN (Faster R-CNN) models with ResNet-50 or ResNet-101 backbone were trained based on the network architectures from the detectron2 model zoo (Mask R-CNN R50, R101-FPN 3x, Faster R-CNN R101-FPN 3x), with default configurations. The YOLO implementation utilized was YOLOv5x6 [13]. All models were initialised us- ing pre-trained weights from the COCO 2017 dataset.

KDD '22, August 14–18, 2022, Washington, DC, USA Birgit

70

65

60

55

mAP 0.50:0.95

70

65

60

55

Pfitzmann, Christoph Auer, Michele Dolfi, Ahmed S. Nassar, and Peter Staar

Learning Curve lists in PubLayNet (grouped list-items) versus DocLayNet (separate One of the fundamental questions related to any dataset is if it is list-items), the label set of size 4 is the closest to PubLayNet, in the "large enough". To answer this question for DocLayNet, we per- assumption that the List is down-mapped to Text in PubLayNet. formed a data ablation study in which we evaluated a Mask R-CNN The results in Table 3 show that the prediction accuracy on the model trained on increasing fractions of the DocLayNet dataset. remaining class labels does not change significantly when other As can be seen in Figure 5, the mAP score rises sharply in the be- classes are merged into them. The overall macro-average improves ginning and eventually levels out. To estimate the error-bar on the by around 5%, in particular when Page-footer and Page-header are metrics, we ran the training five times on the entire data-set. This excluded. resulted in a 1% error-bar, depicted by the shaded area in Figure 5. In the inset of Figure 5, we show the exact same data-points, but Impact of Document Split in Train and Test Set with a logarithmic scale on the x-axis. As is expected, the mAP score increases linearly as a function of the data-size in the inset.Many documents in DocLayNet have a unique styling. In order The curve ultimately flattens out between the 80% and 100% mark, to avoid overfitting on a particular style, we have split the train-, with the 80% mark falling within the error-bars of the 100% mark.test- and validation-sets of DocLayNet on document boundaries, i.e. This provides a good indication that the model would not improve every document contributes pages to only one set. To the best of significantly by yet increasing the data size. Rather, it would prob-our knowledge, this was not considered in PubLayNet or DocBank. ably benefit more from improved data consistency (as discussed To quantify how this affects model performance, we trained and in Section 3), data augmentation methods 23 [ ], or the addition of evaluated a Mask R-CNN R50 model on a modified dataset version. more document categories and styles. Here, the train-, test- and validation-sets were obtained by a ran- domised draw over the individual pages. As can be seen in Table 4, the difference in model performance is surprisingly large: page- Impact of Class Labels ˜ wise splitting gains10% in mAP over the document-wise splitting. The choice and number of labels can have a significant effect on Thus, random page-wise splitting of DocLayNet can easily lead the overall model performance. Since PubLayNet, DocBank and to accidental overestimation of model performance and should be DocLayNet all have different label sets, it is of particular interest to avoided. understand and quantify this influence of the label set on the model performance. We investigate this by either down-mapping labels Dataset Comparison into more common ones (e.g. Caption → Text) or excluding them from the annotations entirely. Furthermore, it must be stressed Throughout this paper, we claim that DocLayNet's wider variety of that all mappings and exclusions were performed on the data be- document layouts leads to more robust layout detection models. In fore model training. In Table 3, we present the mAP scores for a Table 5, we provide evidence for that. We trained models on each Mask R-CNN R50 network on different label sets. Where a label of the available datasets (PubLayNet, DocBank and DocLayNet) is down-mapped, we show its corresponding label, otherwise it and evaluated them on the test sets of the other datasets. Due to was excluded. We present three different label sets, with 6, 5 and 4 the different label sets and annotation styles, a direct comparison different labels respectively. The set of 5 labels contains the same is not possible. Hence, we focussed on the common labels among labels as PubLayNet. However, due to the different definition of the datasets. Between PubLayNet and DocLayNet, these Picture are ,

Overall 72 73 78 77 Title All

## 77 81 72 84 78 87

_Table Text Title_

## 82 83 82 82 85 84 84 84 77 Sec.-h. Sec.-h. Sec.-h.

Section-header 68 83 Table 82 89 Text 85 91

## 69 83 82 90 84 90

Class-count Caption Footnote Formula List-item Page-footer Page-header Picture

11 6 5 4 68 Text Text Text 71 Text Text Text 60 Text Text Text 81 Text 82 Text 62 62 - - 72 68 - - 72 72 72 72 Section-header 68 67 69 68

ther down-mapping or dropping labels.

_Table 3: Performance of a Mask R-CNN R50 network_

Caption Footnote Formula List-item Page-footer Page-header Picture

## 68 83 71 84 60 66 81 88 62 89 72 90 72 82

## 82 88

## 72 82

Class-count Split

## 11 5 Doc Page Doc Page

in mAP@0.5-0.95 scores trained on DocLayNet with different document-wise and page-wise split for different ~ class label sets. The reduced label sets were obtained by ei- Naive page-wise split will result in 10% point ment.

DocLayNet: A Large Human-Annotated Dataset for Document-Layout Analysis KDD

label

'22, August 14–18, 2022, Washington, DC, USA

_Table 4: Performance of a Mask R-CNN R50 network with sets. improve-_

#### REFERENCES

[1] Max Göbel, Tamir Hassan, Ermelinda Oro, and Giorgio Orsi. Icdar 2013 table competition. In 2013 12th International Conference on Document Analysis and Recognition, pages 1449–1453, 2013. [2] Christian Clausner, Apostolos Antonacopoulos, and Stefan Pletschacher. Ic- dar2017 competition on recognition of documents with complex layouts - rdcl2017. In 2017 14th IAPR International Conference on Document Analysis and

Section-header, Table and Text. Before training, we either mapped Recognition (ICDAR), volume 01, pages 1404–1410, 2017.

or excluded DocLayNet's other labels as specified in table 3, and [3] Hervé Déjean, Jean-Luc Meunier, Liangcai Gao, Yilun Huang, Yu Fang, Florian Kleber, and Eva-Maria Lang. ICDAR 2019 Competition on Table Detection and

also PubLayNet's List to Text. Note that the different clustering of Recognition (cTDaR), April 2019. http://sac.founderit.com/.

lists (by list-element vs. whole list objects) naturally decreases the [4] Antonio Jimeno Yepes, Peter Zhong, and Douglas Burdick. Competition on

mAP score for Text. scientific literature parsing. In Proceedings of the International Conference on Document Analysis and Recognition , ICDAR, pages 605–617. LNCS 12824, Springer-

For comparison of DocBank with DocLayNet, we trained only Verlag, sep 2021.

on Picture and Table clusters of each dataset. We had to exclude Text [5] Logan Markewich, Hao Zhang, Yubin Xing, Navid Lambert-Shirzad, Jiang Zhexin, Roy Lee, Zhi Li, and Seok-Bum Ko. Segmentation for document layout analysis:

because successive paragraphs are often grouped together into a not dead yet. International Journal on Document Analysis and Recognition (IJDAR) ,

single object in DocBank. This paragraph grouping is incompatible pages 1–11, 01 2022.

with the individual paragraphs of DocLayNet. As can be seen in [6] Xu Zhong, Jianbin Tang, and Antonio Jimeno-Yepes. Publaynet: Largest dataset ever for document layout analysis. In Proceedings of the International Conference

_Table 5, DocLayNet trained models yield better performance com- on Document Analysis and Recognition , ICDAR, pages 1015–1022, sep 2019._

pared to the previous datasets. It is noteworthy that the models [7] Minghao Li, Yiheng Xu, Lei Cui, Shaohan Huang, Furu Wei, Zhoujun Li, and

trained on PubLayNet and DocBank perform very well on their Ming Zhou. Docbank: A benchmark dataset for document layout analysis. In Proceedings of the 28th International Conference on Computational Linguistics ,

own test set, but have a much lower performance on the foreign COLING, pages 949–960. International Committee on Computational Linguistics,

datasets. While this also applies to DocLayNet, the difference is dec 2020. [8] Riaz Ahmad, Muhammad Tanvir Afzal, and M. Qadir. Information extraction

far less pronounced. Thus we conclude that DocLayNet trained from pdf sources based on rule-based system using integrated formats. SemWe- In

models are overall more robust and will produce better results for bEval@ESWC, 2016.

challenging, unseen layouts. [9] Ross B. Girshick, Jeff Donahue, Trevor Darrell, and Jitendra Malik. Rich feature hierarchies for accurate object detection and semantic segmentation. IEEE In Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition , CVPR, pages 580–587. IEEE Computer Society, jun 2014.

#### Example Predictions

[10] Ross B. Girshick. Fast R-CNN. In 2015 IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision, ICCV, pages 1440–1448. IEEE Computer Society, dec 2015.

To conclude this section, we illustrate the quality of layout predic- [11] Shaoqing Ren, Kaiming He, Ross Girshick, and Jian Sun. Faster r-cnn: Towards

tions one can expect from DocLayNet-trained models by providing real-time object detection with region proposal networks. IEEE Transactions on

a selection of examples without any further post-processing ap- Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence , 39(6):1137–1149, 2017. [12] Kaiming He, Georgia Gkioxari, Piotr Dollár, and Ross B. Girshick. Mask R-CNN.

plied. Figure 6 shows selected layout predictions on pages from the In IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision , ICCV, pages 2980–2988.

test-set of DocLayNet. Results look decent in general across docu- IEEE Computer Society, Oct 2017. [13] Glenn Jocher, Alex Stoken, Ayush Chaurasia, Jirka Borovec, NanoCode012,

ment categories, however one can also observe mistakes such as TaoXie, Yonghye Kwon, Kalen Michael, Liu Changyu, Jiacong Fang, Abhiram V,

overlapping clusters of different classes, or entirely missing boxes Laughing, tkianai, yxNONG, Piotr Skalski, Adam Hogan, Jebastin Nadar, imyhxy,

due to low confidence. Lorenzo Mammana, Alex Wang, Cristi Fati, Diego Montes, Jan Hajek, Laurentiu

total 59 47 78

all datasets.

Testing on Training on labels PLN DB DLN Figure 96 43 23 Sec-header 87 - 32 PubLayNet (PLN) Table 95 24 49 Text 96 - 42 total 93 34 30 Figure 77 71 31 DocBank (DB) Table 19 65 22 total 48 68 27 Figure 67 51 72 Sec-header 53 - 68 DocLayNet (DLN) Table 87 43 82 Text 77 - 84

KDD '22, August 14–18, 2022, Washington, DC, USA Birgit

Table 5: Prediction Performance (mAP@0.5-0.95) of a Mask 6 CONCLUSION R-CNN R50 network across the PubLayNet, DocBank & Do- In this paper, we presented the DocLayNet dataset. It provides the cLayNet data-sets. By evaluating on common label classes of document conversion and layout analysis research community a each dataset, we observe that the DocLayNet-trained model new and challenging dataset to improve and fine-tune novel ML has much less pronounced variations in performance across methods on. In contrast to many other datasets, DocLayNet was created by human annotation in order to obtain reliable layout ground-truth on a wide variety of publication- and typesetting- styles. Including a large proportion of documents outside the scien- tific publishing domain adds significant value in this respect. From the dataset, we have derived on the one hand reference metrics for human performance on document-layout annotation (through double and triple annotations) and on the other hand eval- uated the baseline performance of commonly used object detection methods. We also illustrated the impact of various dataset-related aspects on model performance through data-ablation experiments, both from a size and class-label perspective. Last but not least, we compared the accuracy of models trained on other public datasets and showed that DocLayNet trained models are more robust. To date, there is still a significant gap between human and ML accuracy on the layout interpretation task, and we hope that this work will inspire the research community to close that gap.

Pfitzmann, Christoph Auer, Michele Dolfi, Ahmed S. Nassar, and Peter Staar

Diaconu, Mai Thanh Minh, Marc, albinxavi, fatih, oleg, and wanghao yang. ul- tralytics/yolov5: v6.0 - yolov5n nano models, roboflow integration, tensorflow export, opencv dnn support, October 2021. [14] Nicolas Carion, Francisco Massa, Gabriel Synnaeve, Nicolas Usunier, Alexander Kirillov, and Sergey Zagoruyko. End-to-end object detection with transformers. CoRR, abs/2005.12872, 2020. [15] Mingxing Tan, Ruoming Pang, and Quoc V. Le. Efficientdet: Scalable and efficient object detection. CoRR, abs/1911.09070, 2019. [16] Tsung-Yi Lin, Michael Maire, Serge J. Belongie, Lubomir D. Bourdev, Ross B. Gir- shick, James Hays, Pietro Perona, Deva Ramanan, Piotr Dollár, and C. Lawrence Zitnick. Microsoft COCO: common objects in context, 2014. [17] Yuxin Wu, Alexander Kirillov, Francisco Massa, Wan-Yen Lo, and Ross Girshick. Detectron2, 2019. [18] Nikolaos Livathinos, Cesar Berrospi, Maksym Lysak, Viktor Kuropiatnyk, Ahmed Nassar, Andre Carvalho, Michele Dolfi, Christoph Auer, Kasper Dinkla, and Peter W. J. Staar. Robust pdf document conversion using recurrent neural networks. In Proceedings of the 35th Conference on Artificial Intelligence , AAAI, pages 15137– 15145, feb 2021. [19] Yiheng Xu, Minghao Li, Lei Cui, Shaohan Huang, Furu Wei, and Ming Zhou. Layoutlm: Pre-training of text and layout for document image understanding. In Proceedings of the 26th ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining , KDD, pages 1192–1200, New York, USA, 2020. Asso- ciation for Computing Machinery.

and missing boxes.

_Figure 6: Example layout predictions on selected pages_

ABCD %&'D()* +(,D - .DB/ 0)1/23& A&43B 9(6D21B 5B6D()* - 7B&8B1 9&:B - 7B&8B1 9&:B - 0))DB1

4b3b243c9f81eb1b74da5fd7bd44c4a1c992572723883f9c7d9da8d8d48b04de

C

p

o

3e4e69dd513fefb80bc7d69552cb98b40cb5a90de8dc77498e57d34d0831cade

l

[20]

[21]

[22]

[23]

A(D3B

from

7e670badb141da521b5543d27fe8c64ce2a995b7a0bf3eb60f5aa7e64c84eb50

1ef235655d750948d6f4ca8d637ee013a2893e8ea056e2b918cf26d8600260a4

the DocLayNet test-set.

semantics and relations, 2021.

Discovery and Data Mining

DocLayNet: A Large Human-Annotated Dataset for Document-Layout Analysis KDD

m

i

Fusion of visual and text features for document layout analysis, 2021.

, KDD, pages 774–782. ACM, 2018.

tion for deep learning. Journal of Big Data , 6(1):60, 2019.

(A, D) exhibit favourable

ea825c23ab1660e799f14278729db257e2053a4752fa84a12702dacdc8348934

3b358a286bd52dad28bdf67db122baaa9ade30bb19d025fe66d8374f656fb5eb

Shoubin Li, Xuyan Ma, Shuaiqun Pan, Jun Hu, Lin Shi, and Qing Wang. Vtlayout:

Peng Zhang, Can Li, Liang Qiao, Zhanzhan Cheng, Shiliang Pu, Yi Niu, and Fei Wu. Vsr: A unified framework for document layout analysis combining vision,

Peter W J Staar, Michele Dolfi, Christoph Auer, and Costas Bekas. Corpus conversion service: A machine learning platform to ingest documents at scale. In Proceedings of the 24th ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge

Connor Shorten and Taghi M. Khoshgoftaar. A survey on image data augmenta-

results

'22, August 14–18, 2022, Washington, DC, USA

on coloured backgrounds. (B, C) show accurate list-item and paragraph differentiation despite densely-spaced lines. (E) demon- strates good table and figure distinction. (F) shows predictions on a Chinese patent with multiple overlaps, label confusion

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->