5.2 Results We picked the model parameter configuration that produced the best quality (enc=6, dec=6, heads=8) with alone, then trained and evaluated it on three publicly available data sets: (395k samples), FinTabNet (113k samples) and (about 1M Performance results are presented in Table. 2. It is clearly evident that the model trained on OTSL outperforms HTML across the board, keeping high TEDs and mAP scores even on di ffi cult financial tables that contain sparse and large tables. the results show that OTSL has an over when applied on a bigger data set like and achieves improved scores. Finally, OTSL achieves faster inference due to fewer steps which is a result of the reduced sequence

2

4

6

4

# enc-layers

Table 1. TableFormer [9] trained only on [22]. Ef- fects of reducing the # of layers in encoder and decoder stages of the model show that smaller models trained on OTSL perform better, especially in table structures, and maintain a much higher mAP score than the HTML

5.1 Hyper Parameter We have chosen the PubTabNet data set to perform HPO, since it includes a highly diverse set of tables. Also we report TED scores for simple and complex tables (tables with cell spans). Results are in Table. 1. It is evident that with OTSL, our model achieves the same TED score and better mAP scores in comparison to HTML. However OTSL yields a up in the inference runtime over HTML.

order to compute the TED score. Inference timing results for all were obtained from the same machine on a single core with AMD EPYC 7763 CPU @2.45 GHz.

Additionally,

decoding

Quantitative prediction PubTabNet

samples).

in transformer-based architecture,

complex

separately presented slightly

(FinTabNet)

advantage HTML PubTables-1M significantly

representation.

PubTabNet PubTables-1M

2

6

4

4

#

HPO OTSL and PubTabNet

recognizing counterpart.

_Table for_

experiments

Optimization

independently

dec-layers

performed HTML on the same

Optimized Table 9 Structure

Language

OTSL HTML OTSL HTML OTSL HTML OTSL HTML

simple 0.965 0.969 0.938 0.952 0.923 0.945 0.952 0.944

representation

Tokenization Recognition

TEDs complex 0.934 0.927 0.904 0.909 0.897 0.901 0.92 0.903

mAP (0.75) all 0.955 0.88 0.955 0.857 0.927 0.853 0.938 0.843 0.915 0.859 0.931 0.834 0.942 0.857 0.931 0.824

Inference time (secs) 2.73 5.39 1.97 3.77 1.91 3.81 1.22 2

2x speed